Groundwater recovery wells were installed and approximately gallons impacted groundwater and light non aqueous phase liquid were recovered for disposal.  groundwater pump and treat and recovery system was installed and approximately gallons impacted groundwater and were recovered evaluation soil soil gas and groundwater quality was completed .  Soil gas and the potential for impacts surface water associated with residual impacts groundwater the Site were evaluated using Method two groundwater monitoring wells and were installed the north and south the leaking fuel dispenser.  Soil sampling indicated the presence trace impacts shallow subsurface soils locally elevated concentrations soil the groundwater table and substantially lower impacts soil greater depth the saturated zone.  These relationships suggested that the impacts soil observed the groundwater table borings and were likely associated with the historical release and were not associated entirely associated with the release.  Installation Groundwater Monitoring Wells February and effort assess the horizontal and vertical extent impacts associated with the gasoline release dispenser initiated subsurface investigation program consisting the installation three Site groundwater monitoring wells and and the collection select soil and groundwater samples from those locations for analysis and ethanol.  MassDEP Worcester Massachusetts November Page Installation Groundwater Monitoring Wells September two additional monitoring wells and were installed within the eastern portion the site downgradient the gasoline USTs and dispensers further delineate groundwater impacts.  All and off Site groundwater monitoring wells installed for prior RTNs have been decommissioned stated conditions substantial release migration include the following Releases that have resulted the discharge separate phase oil and hazardous material surface waters subsurface structures underground utilities conduits Releases the ground surface the vadose zone that not promptly removed contained are likely significantly impact the underlying groundwater significantly exacerbate existing condition groundwater pollution Releases the groundwater that have migrated are expected migrate more than feet per year Releases the groundwater that have been are within one year likely detected public private water supply well Releases the groundwater that have been are within one year likely detected surface water body wetland public water supply reservoir Releases the groundwater the vadose zone that have resulted have the potential result the discharge vapors into school daycare childcare center occupied residential dwelling.  Two soil gas points were installed the immediate vicinity the Site building and sampled evaluate potential impacts indoor air.  The soil gas sampling concluded that impacts indoor air from the release were not likely.  The release has not resulted the known discharge NAPLs surface waters underground utilities conduits.  Soils exhibiting the highest levels residual contamination borings and present the groundwater table were dark gray and marked contrast similar materials present shallower depths those locations suggesting the prolonged presence reducing conditions indicative petroleum contamination those areas.  The concentrations residual contamination detected soil from the vicinity the groundwater table boring located relatively upgradient with respect groundwater flow from the release area were substantially higher than those reported present shallow soil the release area and soil from the groundwater table boring situated relatively downgradient with respect groundwater flow from the source the release.  Additionally based field screening TOVs nearby catchbasins following the release field screening TOVs indoor air the convenience store soil gas sampling conducted beneath the site convenience store and relative locations the Site and nearby downgradient structures the opinion that CEPs exist with respect the discharge vapor phase contamination into indoor air the Site downgradient receptors the vicinity the Site.  aliphatic hydrocarbons detected groundwater samples collected from downgradient the fuel dispensers during the June and sampling events exceeded Method The estimated groundwater seepage velocity beneath the Site calculated range from feet per year.  aliphatic fractions groundwater samples collected July and from monitoring well located downgradient the leaking dispenser exceeded Method standards.  Concentrations the soil gas samples collected during from the soil gas points installed beneath the concrete slab floor within Site convenience store did not exceed the MassDEP residential and commercial industrial values for sub slab soil gas. 